master node : here we have some components .api server,etcd,schedler,controller.
worker node : here we have kubelet, kube proxy, container run times, nodes{pods,container}.

what is cluster?
a) multiple nodes machines we called as a cluster.
what is minikube ?
a) it is a single node cluster .i.e  means  it has only 1 node
what is kubeadm ?
a) it is a multiple node cluster . means it has multiple nodes.
kubectl ?
a) if u have cluster ,against the cluster  if u want to know pods or deployments or namspace information  using kubectl command we will know about cluster.
   and if u want to create pods or something in cluster we can create using kubectl.
   ex: kubectl get pods
kubelet  ?
a) it is running on each node . every node has kubelet. it talks with api server everytime. and if it get any request from api server it will deployed those request into the nodes.

what is api server ?
A) if u have certain requirement like create pods or some objects .we write a yml file .this file can  talks with api server only. FROM outside requriments talk only api server.

what is etcd ?
a) it is like a database .if u create anything thosse values stored in etcd.
   if u do any updates it has stored those updates.
   if u delete any anything it will delete in storeage.
   
 what is schedler ?
 a) it is comminicate with api server every time and ask about did i get any updates or not. if it get updates those updates assinge in healthy nodes.
   ex: if it get a request of 5 pods .it will not keep 5 pods in one node.it will check all nodes and space and all. then it will keep each pod into each node .
    
  wt is controller?
  a) it has define some values about nodes ,pods,rs,namespaces,deployments information.
  
  wt is pod ?
  a)it is smallest componets in k8s . we can run containers inside the pods .each pod can contains no.of containers like 1 or 2 or 3.
  
wt is services ?
a) if u have 2 pods and 2 containers running .if u want to do some activities in containers  so , through the services will apply our activties .we write our actities on connatiner .

wt is Kops ? 
 it is k8s operation mangemets . it is acutal deployment in  origsation .it is running on aws cloud.
  wt is repelic set ? 
a) A ReplicaSet's purpose is to maintain a stable set of replica Pods running at any given time.it is often used to guarantee the availability of a specified number of identical Pods.
    its like a auto scailing in aws.
 wt is deployment ?
 a) it is a resource object in Kubernetes that provides declarative updates to applications. A deployment allows you to describe an application’s life cycle, such as 
   which images to use for the app, the number of pods there should be, and the way in which they should be updated.
      a2) Deployments represent a set of multiple, identical Pods with no unique identities. A Deployment runs multiple replicas of your application and automatically replaces any instances that fail.
   The Kubernetes deployment object lets you:
      Deploy a replica set or pod
     Update pods and replica sets
      Rollback to previous deployment versions
       Scale a deployment
     Pause or continue a deployment
